README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./img.png" alt="Project Banner" width="100%">
</p>

# [Project Name] 🎯

## Basic Details

### Team Name: [Name]

### Team Members
- Member 1: [Name] - [College]
- Member 2: [Name] - [College]

### Hosted Project Link
[mention your project hosted link here]

### Project Description
[2-3 lines about what your project does]

### The Problem statement
[What problem are you solving?]

### The Solution
[How are you solving it?]

---

## Technical Details

### Technologies/Components Used

**For Software:**
- Languages used: [e.g., JavaScript, Python, Java]
- Frameworks used: [e.g., React, Django, Spring Boot]
- Libraries used: [e.g., axios, pandas, JUnit]
- Tools used: [e.g., VS Code, Git, Docker]

**For Hardware:**
- Main components: [List main components]
- Specifications: [Technical specifications]
- Tools required: [List tools needed]

---

## Features

List the key features of your project:
- Feature 1: [Description]
- Feature 2: [Description]
- Feature 3: [Description]
- Feature 4: [Description]

---

## Implementation

### For Software:

#### Installation
```bash
[Installation commands - e.g., npm install, pip install -r requirements.txt]
```

#### Run
```bash
[Run commands - e.g., npm start, python app.py]
```

### For Hardware:

#### Components Required
[List all components needed with specifications]

#### Circuit Setup
[Explain how to set up the circuit]

---

## Project Documentation

### For Software:

#### Screenshots (Add at least 3)

![Screenshot1](Add screenshot 1 here with proper name)
*Add caption explaining what this shows*

![Screenshot2](Add screenshot 2 here with proper name)
*Add caption explaining what this shows*

![Screenshot3](Add screenshot 3 here with proper name)
*Add caption explaining what this shows*

#### Diagrams

**System Architecture:**

![Architecture Diagram](docs/architecture.png)
*Explain your system architecture - components, data flow, tech stack interaction*

**Application Workflow:**

![Workflow](docs/workflow.png)
*Add caption explaining your workflow*

---

### For Hardware:

#### Schematic & Circuit

![Circuit](Add your circuit diagram here)
*Add caption explaining connections*

![Schematic](Add your schematic diagram here)
*Add caption explaining the schematic*

#### Build Photos

![Team](Add photo of your team here)

![Components](Add photo of your components here)
*List out all components shown*

![Build](Add photos of build process here)
*Explain the build steps*

![Final](Add photo of final product here)
*Explain the final build*

---

## Additional Documentation

### For Web Projects with Backend:

#### API Documentation

**Base URL:** `https://api.yourproject.com`

##### Endpoints

**GET /api/endpoint**
- **Description:** [What it does]
- **Parameters:**
  - `param1` (string): [Description]
  - `param2` (integer): [Description]
- **Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {}
}
```

**POST /api/endpoint**
- **Description:** [What it does]
- **Request Body:**
```json
{
  "field1": "value1",
  "field2": "value2"
}
```
- **Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "message": "Operation completed"
}
```

[Add more endpoints as needed...]

---

### For Mobile Apps:

#### App Flow Diagram

![App Flow](docs/app-flow.png)
*Explain the user flow through your application*

#### Installation Guide

**For Android (APK):**
1. Download the APK from [Release Link]
2. Enable "Install from Unknown Sources" in your device settings:
   - Go to Settings > Security
   - Enable "Unknown Sources"
3. Open the downloaded APK file
4. Follow the installation prompts
5. Open the app and enjoy!

**For iOS (IPA) - TestFlight:**
1. Download TestFlight from the App Store
2. Open this TestFlight link: [Your TestFlight Link]
3. Click "Install" or "Accept"
4. Wait for the app to install
5. Open the app from your home screen

**Building from Source:**
```bash
# For Android
flutter build apk
# or
./gradlew assembleDebug

# For iOS
flutter build ios
# or
xcodebuild -workspace App.xcworkspace -scheme App -configuration Debug
```

---

### For Hardware Projects:

#### Bill of Materials (BOM)

| Component | Quantity | Specifications | Price | Link/Source |
|-----------|----------|----------------|-------|-------------|
| Arduino Uno | 1 | ATmega328P, 16MHz | ₹450 | [Link] |
| LED | 5 | Red, 5mm, 20mA | ₹5 each | [Link] |
| Resistor | 5 | 220Ω, 1/4W | ₹1 each | [Link] |
| Breadboard | 1 | 830 points | ₹100 | [Link] |
| Jumper Wires | 20 | Male-to-Male | ₹50 | [Link] |
| [Add more...] | | | | |

**Total Estimated Cost:** ₹[Amount]

#### Assembly Instructions

**Step 1: Prepare Components**
1. Gather all components listed in the BOM
2. Check component specifications
3. Prepare your workspace
![Step 1](images/assembly-step1.jpg)
*Caption: All components laid out*

**Step 2: Build the Power Supply**
1. Connect the power rails on the breadboard
2. Connect Arduino 5V to breadboard positive rail
3. Connect Arduino GND to breadboard negative rail
![Step 2](images/assembly-step2.jpg)
*Caption: Power connections completed*

**Step 3: Add Components**
1. Place LEDs on breadboard
2. Connect resistors in series with LEDs
3. Connect LED cathodes to GND
4. Connect LED anodes to Arduino digital pins (2-6)
![Step 3](images/assembly-step3.jpg)
*Caption: LED circuit assembled*

**Step 4: [Continue for all steps...]**

**Final Assembly:**
![Final Build](images/final-build.jpg)
*Caption: Completed project ready for testing*

---

### For Scripts/CLI Tools:

#### Command Reference

**Basic Usage:**
```bash
python script.py [options] [arguments]
```

**Available Commands:**
- `command1 [args]` - Description of what command1 does
- `command2 [args]` - Description of what command2 does
- `command3 [args]` - Description of what command3 does

**Options:**
- `-h, --help` - Show help message and exit
- `-v, --verbose` - Enable verbose output
- `-o, --output FILE` - Specify output file path
- `-c, --config FILE` - Specify configuration file
- `--version` - Show version information

**Examples:**

```bash
# Example 1: Basic usage
python script.py input.txt

# Example 2: With verbose output
python script.py -v input.txt

# Example 3: Specify output file
python script.py -o output.txt input.txt

# Example 4: Using configuration
python script.py -c config.json --verbose input.txt
```

#### Demo Output

**Example 1: Basic Processing**

**Input:**
```
This is a sample input file
with multiple lines of text
for demonstration purposes
```

**Command:**
```bash
python script.py sample.txt
```

**Output:**
```
Processing: sample.txt
Lines processed: 3
Characters counted: 86
Status: Success
Output saved to: output.txt
```

**Example 2: Advanced Usage**

**Input:**
```json
{
  "name": "test",
  "value": 123
}
```

**Command:**
```bash
python script.py -v --format json data.json
```

**Output:**
```
[VERBOSE] Loading configuration...
[VERBOSE] Parsing JSON input...
[VERBOSE] Processing data...
{
  "status": "success",
  "processed": true,
  "result": {
    "name": "test",
    "value": 123,
    "timestamp": "2024-02-07T10:30:00"
  }
}
[VERBOSE] Operation completed in 0.23s
```

---

## Project Demo

### Video
[Add your demo video link here - YouTube, Google Drive, etc.]

*Explain what the video demonstrates - key features, user flow, technical highlights*

### Additional Demos
[Add any extra demo materials/links - Live site, APK download, online demo, etc.]

---

## AI Tools Used (Optional - For Transparency Bonus)

If you used AI tools during development, document them here for transparency:

**Tool Used:** [e.g., GitHub Copilot, v0.dev, Cursor, ChatGPT, Claude]

**Purpose:** [What you used it for]
- Example: "Generated boilerplate React components"
- Example: "Debugging assistance for async functions"
- Example: "Code review and optimization suggestions"

**Key Prompts Used:**
- "Create a REST API endpoint for user authentication"
- "Debug this async function that's causing race conditions"
- "Optimize this database query for better performance"

**Percentage of AI-generated code:** [Approximately X%]

**Human Contributions:**
- Architecture design and planning
- Custom business logic implementation
- Integration and testing
- UI/UX design decisions

*Note: Proper documentation of AI usage demonstrates transparency and earns bonus points in evaluation!*

---

## Team Contributions

- [Name 1]: [Specific contributions - e.g., Frontend development, API integration, etc.]
- [Name 2]: [Specific contributions - e.g., Backend development, Database design, etc.]
- [Name 3]: [Specific contributions - e.g., UI/UX design, Testing, Documentation, etc.]

---

## License

This project is licensed under the [LICENSE_NAME] License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**Common License Options:**
- MIT License (Permissive, widely used)
- Apache 2.0 (Permissive with patent grant)
- GPL v3 (Copyleft, requires derivative works to be open source)

---

Made with ❤️ at TinkerHub

Commit message:

Revise README with project details and features
Updated project name, team details, project description, problem statement, solution, technologies used, and features.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./img.png" alt="Project Banner" width="100%">
</p>

# [AmIEligible] 🎯

## Basic Details

### Team Name: [UpsideDown]

### Team Members
- Member 1: [Cilla Elsa Binoy] - [Government Engineering College Thrissur]
- Member 2: [Meera Nandita S] - [Government Engineering College Thrissur]

### Hosted Project Link
[mention your project hosted link here]

### Project Description
[AmIEligible is a user-friendly platform that helps individuals discover government schemes, scholarships, jobs, and exams they are eligible for in under 60 seconds. By collecting basic details through an interactive step-by-step process, it filters and displays personalized opportunities instantly. The goal is to ensure no one misses out on important opportunities due to lack of awareness.
]

### The Problem statement
[Many people miss out on valuable opportunities like government schemes, scholarships, jobs, and competitive exams simply because information is scattered across multiple websites and is often difficult to understand. This lack of awareness especially affects students, women, and economically weaker sections, leading to underutilization of benefits that are meant to support them]

### The Solution
[The platform solves this by bringing all relevant opportunities into a single, easy-to-use website. Users enter basic details such as income, category (student, farmer, etc.), and location, and the system filters and displays only the opportunities they are eligible for. This personalized approach makes information accessible, saves time, and ensures users can easily find and apply for the benefits they deserve.]

---

## Technical Details

### Technologies/Components Used

**For Software:**
- Languages used: [Htmll,css,javascript]
- Frameworks used: [None]
- Libraries used: [None]
- Tools used: [VS Code,Live server Git]

**For Hardware:**
- Main components: [List main components]
- Specifications: [Technical specifications]
- Tools required: [List tools needed]

---

## Features

List the key features of your project:
- Feature 1: [Smart Eligibility Checker
Users answer a few simple step-by-step questions (income, category, state, etc.), and the system instantly filters and shows schemes, scholarships, exams, and jobs they are eligible for]
- Feature 2: [Unified Opportunity Hub
Combines government schemes, scholarships, job openings, and exams into one platform, so users don’t have to search across multiple websites.]
- Feature 3: [Simple & Interactive User Interface
Clean, beginner-friendly design with guided inputs, progress indicators, and instant results to make discovery fast and stress-free.]
- Feature 4: [Lightweight JSON-Based Data System
Uses a structured JSON database for fast filtering and easy updates without needing a complex backend.]

---

## Implementation

### For Software:

#### Installation
```bash
[Installation commands - e.g., npm install, pip install -r requirements.txt]
```

#### Run
```bash
[Run commands - e.g., npm start, python app.py]
```

### For Hardware:

#### Components Required
[List all components needed with specifications]

#### Circuit Setup
[Explain how to set up the circuit]

---

## Project Documentation

### For Software:

#### Screenshots (Add at least 3)

![Screenshot1](Add screenshot 1 here with proper name)
*Add caption explaining what this shows*

![Screenshot2](Add screenshot 2 here with proper name)
*Add caption explaining what this shows*

![Screenshot3](Add screenshot 3 here with proper name)
*Add caption explaining what this shows*

#### Diagrams

**System Architecture:**

![Architecture Diagram](docs/architecture.png)
*Explain your system architecture - components, data flow, tech stack interaction*

**Application Workflow:**

![Workflow](docs/workflow.png)
*Add caption explaining your workflow*

---

### For Hardware:

#### Schematic & Circuit

![Circuit](Add your circuit diagram here)
*Add caption explaining connections*

![Schematic](Add your schematic diagram here)
*Add caption explaining the schematic*

#### Build Photos

![Team](Add photo of your team here)

![Components](Add photo of your components here)
*List out all components shown*

![Build](Add photos of build process here)
*Explain the build steps*

![Final](Add photo of final product here)
*Explain the final build*

---

## Additional Documentation

### For Web Projects with Backend:

#### API Documentation

**Base URL:** `https://api.yourproject.com`

##### Endpoints

**GET /api/endpoint**
- **Description:** [What it does]
- **Parameters:**
  - `param1` (string): [Description]
  - `param2` (integer): [Description]
- **Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {}
}
```

**POST /api/endpoint**
- **Description:** [What it does]
- **Request Body:**
```json
{
  "field1": "value1",
  "field2": "value2"
}
```
- **Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "message": "Operation completed"
}
```

[Add more endpoints as needed...]

---

### For Mobile Apps:

#### App Flow Diagram

![App Flow](docs/app-flow.png)
*Explain the user flow through your application*

#### Installation Guide

**For Android (APK):**
1. Download the APK from [Release Link]
2. Enable "Install from Unknown Sources" in your device settings:
   - Go to Settings > Security
   - Enable "Unknown Sources"
3. Open the downloaded APK file
4. Follow the installation prompts
5. Open the app and enjoy!

**For iOS (IPA) - TestFlight:**
1. Download TestFlight from the App Store
2. Open this TestFlight link: [Your TestFlight Link]
3. Click "Install" or "Accept"
4. Wait for the app to install
5. Open the app from your home screen

**Building from Source:**
```bash
# For Android
flutter build apk
# or
./gradlew assembleDebug

# For iOS
flutter build ios
# or
xcodebuild -workspace App.xcworkspace -scheme App -configuration Debug
```

---

### For Hardware Projects:

#### Bill of Materials (BOM)

| Component | Quantity | Specifications | Price | Link/Source |
|-----------|----------|----------------|-------|-------------|
| Arduino Uno | 1 | ATmega328P, 16MHz | ₹450 | [Link] |
| LED | 5 | Red, 5mm, 20mA | ₹5 each | [Link] |
| Resistor | 5 | 220Ω, 1/4W | ₹1 each | [Link] |
| Breadboard | 1 | 830 points | ₹100 | [Link] |
| Jumper Wires | 20 | Male-to-Male | ₹50 | [Link] |
| [Add more...] | | | | |

**Total Estimated Cost:** ₹[Amount]

#### Assembly Instructions

**Step 1: Prepare Components**
1. Gather all components listed in the BOM
2. Check component specifications
3. Prepare your workspace
![Step 1](images/assembly-step1.jpg)
*Caption: All components laid out*

**Step 2: Build the Power Supply**
1. Connect the power rails on the breadboard
2. Connect Arduino 5V to breadboard positive rail
3. Connect Arduino GND to breadboard negative rail
![Step 2](images/assembly-step2.jpg)
*Caption: Power connections completed*

**Step 3: Add Components**
1. Place LEDs on breadboard
2. Connect resistors in series with LEDs
3. Connect LED cathodes to GND
4. Connect LED anodes to Arduino digital pins (2-6)
![Step 3](images/assembly-step3.jpg)
*Caption: LED circuit assembled*

**Step 4: [Continue for all steps...]**

**Final Assembly:**
![Final Build](images/final-build.jpg)
*Caption: Completed project ready for testing*

---

### For Scripts/CLI Tools:

#### Command Reference

**Basic Usage:**
```bash
python script.py [options] [arguments]
```

**Available Commands:**
- `command1 [args]` - Description of what command1 does
- `command2 [args]` - Description of what command2 does
- `command3 [args]` - Description of what command3 does

**Options:**
- `-h, --help` - Show help message and exit
- `-v, --verbose` - Enable verbose output
- `-o, --output FILE` - Specify output file path
- `-c, --config FILE` - Specify configuration file
- `--version` - Show version information

**Examples:**

```bash
# Example 1: Basic usage
python script.py input.txt

# Example 2: With verbose output
python script.py -v input.txt

# Example 3: Specify output file
python script.py -o output.txt input.txt

# Example 4: Using configuration
python script.py -c config.json --verbose input.txt
```

#### Demo Output

**Example 1: Basic Processing**

**Input:**
```
This is a sample input file
with multiple lines of text
for demonstration purposes
```

**Command:**
```bash
python script.py sample.txt
```

**Output:**
```
Processing: sample.txt
Lines processed: 3
Characters counted: 86
Status: Success
Output saved to: output.txt
```

**Example 2: Advanced Usage**

**Input:**
```json
{
  "name": "test",
  "value": 123
}
```

**Command:**
```bash
python script.py -v --format json data.json
```

**Output:**
```
[VERBOSE] Loading configuration...
[VERBOSE] Parsing JSON input...
[VERBOSE] Processing data...
{
  "status": "success",
  "processed": true,
  "result": {
    "name": "test",
    "value": 123,
    "timestamp": "2024-02-07T10:30:00"
  }
}
[VERBOSE] Operation completed in 0.23s
```

---

## Project Demo

### Video
[Add your demo video link here - YouTube, Google Drive, etc.]

*Explain what the video demonstrates - key features, user flow, technical highlights*

### Additional Demos
[Add any extra demo materials/links - Live site, APK download, online demo, etc.]

---

## AI Tools Used (Optional - For Transparency Bonus)

If you used AI tools during development, document them here for transparency:

**Tool Used:** [e.g., GitHub Copilot, v0.dev, Cursor, ChatGPT, Claude]

**Purpose:** [What you used it for]
- Example: "Generated boilerplate React components"
- Example: "Debugging assistance for async functions"
- Example: "Code review and optimization suggestions"

**Key Prompts Used:**
- "Create a REST API endpoint for user authentication"
- "Debug this async function that's causing race conditions"
- "Optimize this database query for better performance"

**Percentage of AI-generated code:** [Approximately X%]

**Human Contributions:**
- Architecture design and planning
- Custom business logic implementation
- Integration and testing
- UI/UX design decisions

*Note: Proper documentation of AI usage demonstrates transparency and earns bonus points in evaluation!*

---

## Team Contributions

- [Name 1]: [Specific contributions - e.g., Frontend development, API integration, etc.]
- [Name 2]: [Specific contributions - e.g., Backend development, Database design, etc.]
- [Name 3]: [Specific contributions - e.g., UI/UX design, Testing, Documentation, etc.]

---

## License

This project is licensed under the [LICENSE_NAME] License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**Common License Options:**
- MIT License (Permissive, widely used)
- Apache 2.0 (Permissive with patent grant)
- GPL v3 (Copyleft, requires derivative works to be open source)

---

Made with ❤️ at TinkerHub
